>> Jen Kramer: We finally
have our completed webpage.
We've coded the whole
thing inside of Github and
the next thing to do is actually get it
somewhere that the whole world can see it.
Codepen is not the place for that.
So that is the next thing that
we're going to walk through and
we're gonna do this in two steps.
One is we need to take
everything out of Codepen and
set it up as individual files, which
we're gonna work with inside of VS code,
which is a typical editor that's used for
this kind of work.
And then the second part of it is we're
going to move it from our files that
are here on our computer up to GitHub,
and then ultimately to GitHub pages.
And I'm gonna talk about all
those steps in a lot of detail.
But the very first thing that we're going
to do is take this out of CodePen and
set it up as individual files.
So to start with, you are going to want
the finished state of chapter six after
we've gone through and we've put in our
switch and we have all of our tweaks done,
everything is ready to go, this is
where we're starting from here, okay.
All right, so the easiest way
to do this is the following,
and the way that I usually do it,
what I'm going to do
here is right on my desktop,
you can set up a folder.
>> Jen Kramer: And of course, this is
different on Windows than it is on Mac, so
however you set up a folder.
And you can just call it whatever,
website,
some sort of original name for it.
Inside of your website folder,
we can put in a couple of folders here.
We're gonna want our images,
so I usually call mine img,
you could call it images, the word.
And then typically we also
have a folder for CSS.
So I'm gonna make a folder for
CSS as well.
And that'll just be sitting here on my
desktop right here, so there it is.
You're gonna wanna work with a program
that will allow you to write HTML,
CSS, off in JavaScript and
many other languages on your computer.
The one that most people use
these days is Visual Studio Code.
If we google for that,
this is at code.visualstudio.com.
It is a free program,
you can download it right from here.
Mine says, download for Mac because
I'm on a Mac, if you're on Windows,
this will say, download for
Windows, all right.
You can download this and
install it on your computer,
this will allow you to
assemble your web pages.
So I am going to open up my copy of
VS Code, and once you have it installed
on your computer, you will see
something probably kind of like this.
And the easiest thing to
do to get going is just to
grab your folder right from
the desktop and drag and
drop it over here in this left column,
we just drag and drop.
It may give you an error like this,
do you wanna save your workspace
configuration as a file?
If you all know what you're doing,
you do you.
For those of you who are new to this
process, I'm just gonna say don't save.
Okay, so this is gonna give us our folders
over hereas, there's nothing in them yet,
it gives me a folder for CSS and
it gives me a folder for images.
All right, I'm gonna start by creating
a new text file here inside of VS code,
and it's gonna say,
select a language or whatever.
So I am going to say File Save, and
I'm gonna put this right
in my website folder and
I'm going to call this file index.html.
So this is really important,
you wanna call it index.html.
That will be the page that
loads when your website loads.
If you call it anything else, if you call
it gen.html, if you call it, whatever.
It will not load automatically
when your website loads.
This is what we wanna do,
it has to be called index.html.
And we're gonna say Save, and it should be
there installed on your computer, okay?
The next thing that I do,
let's give it a try.
I'm gonna hit an exclamation point,
single exclamation point, and
then click the tab key on my computer.
So single exclamation point and
the tab key on the computer and
this should give you all of your HTML,
both the head and
the body of your HTML
here inside of VS code.
All right, so now if you've gotten
this far, we are at the easy point.
So what we're going to do now
is copy over our HTML, and
then we're gonna copy over our CSS, and
then we need to work on our images.
So I'm gonna go back to my window here,
and I'm going to go to my HTML.
And I'm just gonna do Control or
Command A to select everything here,
Control or Command C to copy and
come here into index dot HTML,
and Control or Command V to paste.
And so you'll see how all of our
HTML code will show up here.
>> Jen Kramer: If things are scrolling all
the way over to the side and that annoys
you, you can always turn on your word
wrapping that's under view, word wrap.
>> Jen Kramer: And then probably pretty
key here on line six is our title, or
HTML title.
I'm gonna change that to be brissa
is Sid rose website, or actually,
I'll say portfolio react developer,
or whatever.
You can put in, this is a place that
Google tends to look for keywords.
So put in some keywords so
people can find you.
So now that we've got that in place,
the next thing we need to
do is copy over our CSS.
And so once again,
we're gonna go back to our code pen.
I'm going to open up my CSS.
So I'm going to select everything,
copy it, and
I'm gonna go back to VS code, and
I'm going to create a new document.
Just use the new document
button right here, and
I can call this styles,
styles, dot css, and
I'm gonna drag and
drop that into my CSS folder,
yes, please move that.
And then into this I can
paste all of my styles.
All right, we'll save that.
Okay, so
now I have an index.html that contains all
the HTML from my code pen in
between body and slash body.
And I have all of the CSS that I've
created in a file called styles.css.
And these two things
are hanging out there.
Yay, they don't talk to each other, right?
Now we need to link them together so
that they talk to each other.
To do that, we're going to add that right
here into the head of our document.
And this is going to be link href equals,
we're gonna go to
css/styles.css rel=stylesheet.
>> Jen Kramer: So that will link the two
things together, that one line of code.
Another extension that I have installed
is the ability just to view this
HTML directly in my web browser.
That is here, it's called Tech.
I believe, is the name of the company, and
the name of the extension is Open
in Browser right here, okay?
And what that will do is give
you the ability to right
click on this, and I can say open.
In my case, I'm gonna open it in Chrome,
and boom, there it is.
Yes, so it's open in Chrome.
Okay, now sharp eyes are gonna notice
that this is actually not the same font.
This is probably Helvetica, and
the reason why is because we haven't
actually linked to our
font from Google Fonts.
So let's get that done now.
If I go to fonts.google.com,
we are going to search for the Inter.
Inter is the name of our font, okay?
And that is the one that
we're going to wanna get.
So we're gonna click on get font.
There's a lot of ways you can do this.
You can download it, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
We're just gonna do the simple way.
We're gonna get the embed code, and
we're going to get the link here that that
is in the head of your HTML document.
So I'm gonna just copy that embed code for
the head of your HTML.
And I'm going to add that here.
I usually put it before my custom
style sheet, so there it is.
If you're wondering where
that was in CodePen,
this is a setting that you can put in so
here, under settings,
under CSS, if you scroll down,
if you have the URL for
your font, which case starts with fonts,
dot google,
apis.com, you can copy and
paste this in here and
you have linked to the Google
font that you want to use.
In our case, so you never actually saw
that link here inside of this code pen,
but that's not gonna help us when
we carry over here into VS code.
So we need to make sure that we link to
our font here in the head of our document
as well.
Once that's done,
then that should be working correctly.
Next thing we need to do is we
need to take a look at our images.
So right now, I have no images
here inside of VS Code, but
I have images that
are inside of my CodePen.
So I'm gonna go back to my CodePen.
>> Jen Kramer: Get VS Code
out of the way here.
And inside of my website folder,
inside of my images folder here,
I am going to, I can actually
do this right here on my Mac,
I'm not sure if this is a Windows thing,
but you can just drag and
drop these from here on your Mac,
drag them right into the folder.
If that is not an option for you, then
you can right click on these images and
there's probably like a save
image as kind of thing, and
you wanna save those
into your images folder.
So I'm going to pull down.
There was the picture of Brissa.
There's the picture of these projects.
>> Jen Kramer: Because we've have our
SVGs directly inside of our HTML.
We don't need to pull those down.
So I think there's just four images here.
On the site,
do we have a place where we can copy that?
That's a very good question.
So where do images come from on CodePen?
If you have a free account, you cannot
put your own images inside of CodePen.
You actually have to have a paid account.
If you have a paid account,
there is an option here for assets and
you can upload your
images here directly in.
So because I have a paid account,
and you forked a copy of my work.
You have access to these images as well,
yeah?
But you won't be able to add your own
images to CodePen without getting
a paid account.
You can use an absolute path to images
elsewhere on the internet though,
if you want.
Okay, so here then inside of VS code,
you should have your images that you
just downloaded from your CodePen,
and now we just need to
find those images here.
All right, so in line 56 I have noticed
that this is calling an absolute path.
So this is calling my image right from
CodePen and I don't wanna do that,
I wanna call it from my
local copy of my image.
So this is just gonna be img/brissa or
fem frontend masters fem.brissa.jpeg.
All right, and we'll just replace that for
our other items as well.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so that should
now be pointing to your local copy.
[COUGH] And if we refresh,
we'll get the inter font and
these should all be now local images,
okay.
>> Jen Kramer: How's everybody doing so
far?
>> Speaker 2: Do we have to
log in to get the images?
>> Jen Kramer: No,
you should be able to just right click,
right-click on any image.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah, and just save images.
Yeah, okay, so briefly here,
then we have done the following.
We downloaded VS code,
we set up a folder that had folders for
CSS and images inside of it.
We created a file, we copied our
HTML into that file, we added to it,
we added our links to our Google font, and
we added a link to our custom style sheet,
which we also created by creating
a separate document, copying and
pasting over our CSS from CodePen.
We downloaded all of the images
that were there on our design and
we saved them into our images folder.
So we're now completely
disentangled from CodePen.
We now have a complete local website here,
living on our computer inside of vs.code